FlorML XML insertion Perl scripts: Mini FAQ

Revision date: July 28, 2016
Author: Thomas Hamann

=========================================================================================
Q: In what order should I run the scripts?

A: See the documentation on script running.
=========================================================================================
Q: Why is there a repository update titled "Sanitized perl script comments"?

A: Simply put, because I sometimes forgot to edit the comments after fixing bugs in the code. This 
led to illogicalities where the comments seemingly indicates a problem with the code, while the code
is correct. I also sometimes made notes in the comments that without context appear to now be 
meaningless. Finally, sometimes there were comments present for code that was never written. These 
things have now been cleaned out, together with excessive empty lines. However, I've left in some 
TODO's, so people can know when something potentially important isn't implemented. I've also used 
this update to provide the scripts properly, instead of as ZIP archives.
=========================================================================================
Q: Are there any things that are known to be broken and/or incorrect in the scripts?

A: Yes. One of the formats used in floras for basionyms, homonyms, and "correct names" is exactly 
the same for all three types of contents, with no obvious clues as to what is what. The editor of 
the flora likely knows this best and will be able to tell what the format means *in the context of 
that particular flora*. However, I only realized this problem was present fairly late in the mark-up
process, when I encountered a case that exposed the contradictions between the different 
explanations I had received on the subject from different people, and had to manually correct each 
of those cases directly in the XML files. The Flore du Gabon and Flora of the Guianas scripts will 
erroneously mark up these up using the <acceptedName>-tag (an older, deprecated tag that 
effectively means "basionym"). XML files using that tag need to be manually edited to use the proper
tag, otherwise they won't validate under the current FlorML schema version.
A2: Beyond that particular case, the scripts do not aim at perfect mark-up, but at ensuring that 
80-90% or more of the mark-up is correctly inserted, so everything will be broken up to a certain 
degree, as there are always exceptions that require manual intervention, especially in older floras 
(<1980).
=========================================================================================
Q: Why are there sometimes large chunks of code commented out?

A: There are several possible answers here. Firstly, and most importantly, not all processed flora 
volumes required exactly the same processing. Some volumes had specific quirks or very divergent 
formats that required a one-time solution (see for a good example Flore du Gabon volume 5a). These 
solutions were then commented out, especially when they tended to interfere with more generally used
formats, in case I would need them again later on. Another reason for large chunks of code that are 
still present, but commented out is simply the evolution of my coding abilities. Some sections of 
code were rewritten to be more efficient or less error-prone in their results. The old code sections
were then commented out, but not removed, lest I still need part of them one day.
=========================================================================================
Q: Why are the comments in the Flore du Gabon scripts mostly in French?

A: When I first created the Flore du Gabon scripts, I thought I had to choose between doing the 
comments in English or in French, and finally chose French because the people working on that flora 
usually were Francophone, meaning that the chance of any successors being more at ease with working 
in French was pretty high. Only later I read on a coding site (StackOverflow, I think...) that 
comments in programming scripts usually should be made in the language the programming language was 
based on (i.e. English), even if the coder's native or preferred language was a different one. 
However, by that point changing all of the comments would have been a lot of work, for which I had 
no time, so I left it as is.
=========================================================================================
Q: Why are there comments in the other scripts that are in French?

A: Because those code sections were literally copied out of the Flore du Gabon scripts and I didn't 
change the comments.
=========================================================================================
Copyright Thomas Hamann 2016.
